Atalanta

Early Life
Atalanta was born in Acadia to a king and queen who were very displeased that they’d had a daughter. Rather than raising her as a boy as many tended to do, the king opted to abandon infant Atalanta on a mountaintop to die. Luckily, she was soon found and taken in by a mother bear, who raised her as her own cub. Later, Atalanta was found and returned to civilization by a band of hunters who decided to raise her as their own. With the influences from her childhood, Atalanta grew up to be a brilliant athlete and expert huntress, budling her reputation through exploits such as beating King Peleus in a wrestling match, killing some centaurs who were being particularly crude in her direction, and possibly riding on the voyage of the Argonauts.

The Boar Hunt
Later in her life, Atalanta stared in her first major myth, as a part of the Calydonian boar hunt. In the nearby kingdom of Calydon, King Oeneus failed to honour Artemis during their annual harvest festival and was punished for this with a giant monster boar sent by the goddess to terrorize the land. A call was put out to anyone willing to come fight the monster, with its skin and tusk offered as a reward to the hunter who succeeded in killing it. Among the men who gathered for the hunt, was Atalanta, much to the displeasure of the other hunters. It was the Calydonian prince, Meleager, who insisted they accept the fact that she was to join them. In the end, they were the two successful in taking the boar down, Atalanta drawing first blood, which allowed Meleager to make the killing blow. Despite the other hunters trying to pass all the credit to Meleager, he insisted that for getting the first hit, Atalanta deserved it and he awarded her the prize. Unfortunately, the men hunting with them are none too pleased about this and try to bully Atalanta into leaving so they can take credit for the kill. They do not succeed and after a fight, end the adventure dead and Atalanta is recognized as the huntress who killed the Calydonian boar.

The Footrace
After the boar hunt, Atalanta grew in fame, attracting many suitors despite her general distaste for men. In an effort to manage the issue in a more socially acceptable way than simply murdering all of them, she proposed a contest: any man who could beat her in a footrace would win her hand in marriage. Those who lost the race, would be killed. The catch dissuaded many, but somehow not all. Those it didn’t scare off were easily outrun and promptly killed, as Atalanta was one of the fastest mortals in the world. However, suitors kept coming, kept racing, and kept dying. Until one day, a young man named Hippomenes came to race. Hippomenes was smart and kind and attractive, and also had called in the help of Aphrodite, who had given him three golden apples. As they raced, Hippomenes threw the golden apples behind them, inciting Atalanta to go after them and subsequently lose the race. Some interpretations of the myth suggest that Atalanta went after the apples as a way of letting Hippomenes win, rather than being genuinely unable to resist them, which I would argue is by far the better interpretation. 


Fast Facts
-	“Atalanta” comes from the Greek “atalantos” meaning “equal weight.”
-	Depending on the telling, Atalanta is sometimes listed as having been aboard the Argo with Jason.
-	Atalanta once beat king Peleus (Father of Achilles) in a wrestling match.
-	She once shot some centaurs for catcalling her.
-	In some tellings, after banging in one of his temples, Zeus turns Atalanta and Hippomenes into lions. This was considered particularly cruel because at the time, everyone thought that lions only mated with leopards and not with other lions.




The Labyrinth

The Creation of the Minotaur
Our story starts with Minos, king of Crete and son of Zeus (which is always a good sign), who prayed to Poseidon to send him a snow-white bull as a sign of his right to rule Crete over his brothers, Rhadamanthys or Sarpedon. Poseidon agrees, on the condition that Minos sacrifice the bull to him once he’s done with it. Everyone is impressed by the bull and Minos becomes king. However, Minos likes the bull so much that he decides it is far too awesome to sacrifice, keeps it, and sacrifices a different, significantly less impressive bull instead. This of course enrages Poseidon and so, in retribution, he has Aphrodite step in to make Minos’ wife Pasiphaë fall in love with the bull. The Cretan bull has standards however and is not too enthused at being propositioned by some disgusting biped and so Pasiphaë must get creative. Luckily for her (kind of?) known architect and craftsman Daedalus is on Crete at the time. So, Pasiphaë commissions him to build her a hollow wooden cow suit. Daedalus is a professional and thus, takes the job without asking any superfluous questions. Pasiphaë’s
creative solution to her unrequited desire problem succeeds and nine months later, Crete is graced with the minotaur. Unfortunately, the minotaur, as your standard abomination, is born with a diet of only humans and absolutely no other options. Instead of killing the beast or just letting it starve to death, Minos consults the oracle at Delphi who tells him to just lock the thing up somewhere it can have its space. Fortunately, Daedalus is still around, and Minos commissions him to design and build a massive labyrinth for the minotaur. With the minotaur locked up in the labyrinth and out of risk of rampaging, Minos only needs to procure food for it. The exact reasons for his decision vary depending on the telling, but in the end, Minos demands 14 young Athenians be sent to Crete every few years as a sacrifice, and the children are sent into the labyrinth to feed the minotaur.

Theseus
Around the third round of Athenian sacrifices to Crete, the routine catches the attention of Athens’ favourite founder hero (questionable choice Athens), Theseus. So, Theseus sails his way over to Crete with a big sword and absolutely no game plan, where he meets Minos’ daughter Ariadne, who immediately falls completely in love with him. Wanting to help the cute boy, Ariadne gives Theseus a clew, a ball of thread, to help him retrace his path so he can escape the labyrinth. With his exit strategy sorted, Theseus ventures into the labyrinth to find the minotaur and battle until he finally manages to decapitate it. However, Minos is inexplicably none too pleased that his monster is dead and Theseus and Ariadne, along with the young Athenians rescued from the labyrinth, have to make a quick escape from Crete. After escaping, Theseus makes the very considerate decision to abandon Ariadne on the shore of Naxos while she’s sleeping. Because Theseus is just a really great guy.

Icarus
Icarus may be one of the best-known names from Greek mythology nowadays, we’ve all heard the saying about how he flew too close to the sun. However, for many, that’s about all the information they’ve got. Icarus was the son of Daedalus, the creator of the labyrinth. Once Daedalus had finished the project, Minos decided that it would really be very unwise to rely on the labyrinth as a handy murder weapon if there were people out there who knew the way out. So, since it worked so well with his first problem, he decided to keep on with locking away those who’s existence was proving to be a problem for him. And so, Daedalus and his son Icarus were locked away in a tower, unable to leave by land or sea, due to Minos having an eye on all transport. However, Daedalus is, of course, an inventor and so he goes ahead and constructs two sets of wings, for himself and Icarus, out of feathers and wax. Daedalus warns Icarus that he needs to be careful when flying: if he flies too low, the spray from the sea will weigh down his wings and he won’t be able to fly anymore, if he flies too high, the sun’s heat will melt the wax and he’ll fall. Unfortunately, Icarus is young and stupid and so he immediately disregards the warning and flies up as high as he can. The sun melts the wax, the wings fall apart, and Icarus falls into the sea and drowns.


Fast Facts
-	King Minos and the Cretan bull show up again in the Myth of Heracles (Hercules), who’s seventh trial is to capture the bull.
-	Daedalus came to Crete in the first place because he was fleeing from Athens after being convicted for the murder of his nephew Perdix, who he’d seen as a threat in his craft.
-	Minos found Daedalus after his escape by going city to city presenting a riddle, which he knew only Daedalus could solve.
-	After finding Dedalus in Camicus, Minos was boiled alive before he could take him back to Crete.
